# FilecoinGreen-tools
Tools we need to build and are building in order to track, reduce and mitigate environmental impacts in Filecoin and beyond

# Welcome to the Filecoin Green project idea repo!
As we are building tools to track environmental attributes throughout the Filecoin ecosystem - and throughout Web3 more broadly - we want to know your thoughts and ideas. What needs to be built in this space?

# The goals of Filecoin Green

In the near-term the focus of Filecoin Green is to build open-source tools making easy to estimate, reduce, and mitigate the environmental impacts of Filecoin, beginning with electricity use and consequent carbon emissions.

Ultimately, Filecoin Green aims to build tools allowing environmental impacts to be verified throughout Web3 and the larger economy. The scope of 'environmental impacts' is intentionally broad, including not only electricity use but also embodied emissions in hardware and the environmental impacts of mining. We believe that the verifiability and interoperability of Web3 datastructures lend themselves naturally to rigorously evaluating upstream environmental effects throughout a value chain, and that building these tools now will enable us to substantially reduce and mitigate these impacts throughout the future world economy.

How can we create a world in which environmental impacts are visible in every online action? How can we support Filecoin and other networks in a journey to become verifiably net environmentally beneficial? How can we harness Defi and other Web3 innovations to verifiably channel resources towards environmental causes? And of course, how can we use Filecoin to store all the data associated with this?

# How to use this Repo
**If you have an idea -** Write about it! Copy the idea template, fill it out, and add a link in the table below. Please check first to see whether someone has added something similar.

**If you're looking for an idea to hack on -** Welcome! Browse the ideas, try something out, and add a link to your stuff in the "Projects and Artifacts" section of the relevant project.

**If you know things -** If you have expertise in relevant subject matter, please contribute! Feel free to browse through ideas and flesh them out or comment on what others have written. If you make substantial contributions, add your name to 'Authors'

# In the future
Protocol Labs wants to support ideas in this space! We are planning events, grants and other support to enable Filecoin to become verifiably environmentally beneficial and to track environmental impacts throughout the web. Join #fil-green on [Filecoin Slack](https://filecoin.io/slack) to be the first to find out about new opportunities.

# Filecoin Green Tool Proposal (FGTP) List
|FGTP Number|Title|Description|Link|
|---|---|---|---|
| 0000 | Filecoin Green Tool Proposal template | Template for new proposals | https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0000-FGTP-template.md |
| 0001 | Carbon 12 | Embodied emissions tracking solution | https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0001-FGTP-Carbon12.md |
| 0002 | REC Location Matcher | Algorithmic matching of generation and consumption locations | https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0002-FGTP-REC-Location-Matcher.md |
| 0003 | Filecoin Electricity Estimator | Model for estimating the electricty use of Filecoin  | https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0003-FGTP-Filecoin-Electricity-Estimator.md |
| 0004 | Content address EACs | Build Web3-native tools to assign CIDs to renewable energy certificates and the metadata mapping from them to SPs.  | https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0004-FGTP-Content-Address-EACs.md |
| 0005 | Green SP Guidance | Provide guidance to SPs on best practices for sustainability | https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0005-FGTP-Green-SP-Guidance.md |
| 0006 | CO2.Storage | Free decentralized storage utility for Environmental Assets, built on Filecoin/IPFS | https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0006-FGTP-CO2_Storage.md |
| 0007 | Offset_SBS | Offset the travel-related emissions generated by all attendees & speakers to and from the Sustainable Blockchain Summit. | [https://github.com/protocol/FilecoinGreen-tools/blob/main/0007-FGTP-Offset_SBS.md] |





